




                                 MILLINIEUM 2.2

     By ???. Edited by Parasite.

       I. Background
          Time: It is the year 2200
          Place: The last outpost of the United States Space Force
          (expeditionary)

          After a brief but fruitful race to space, America succeded in
          establishing a colony on the Moon 10 years ago  and the Russians
          on Mars. All was fine until Boris Yeltzen, the Soviet Premire,
          woke up cranky after an all night drinking binge. He reached for
          the button to call his valet, but mistakenly pushed the button that
          called for a preemptive strike on the U.S. .

          On the moon, preperations were underway for an intersteller mission to
          colonize other solarsystems. Since a true intersteller drive had not
          been perfected yet, cryo-sleep was the only way to go. A test of the
          model colony was to be done using all the equipment developed for the
          mission. For the test, the test crew was put into cryo-sleep for a year
          to test the system for waking the crew.

          On Mars, the ruskies had moved STAR city from Earth to continue the
          1000 year plan of a communist solar system.

      II. Purpose

          When the systems awoke the colonists, they found the Earth below
          a volcanic ruin and thier base deserted.

          Mission: to perpetuate a free populance of humans and one day to re-
          colonize Earth.

          Enemies: The remains of the U.S.S.R. who control Mars and it's
          moons and are watching your base via spy craft.

      III. Your Moonbase: Left hand icon on title bar.

      Consists of   sections:

         To go to each section, put the arrow over it's dome and click.

         Hangar: Central section where all extra planatary missions start.
         (all functions here are self explanatory point and click)

         Resources: Mining..where you gather ore from the surface
         (requires power!)

         Energy: Power supplied to the base.
         ( you start out on battery power, put the arrow over the equipment
          you want to put online..the number that is... and click)

         Life Support: Will tell you the current population and number of domes
         you have. Also show a pic of the racial type in the dome (watch this on
         your colonies)

         Defense: Duhhh.. three things to watch here...








                    Center screen: Incoming hostiles

                    right bottom Orbital lasers (box)

                    left bottom Fighters (box)

         When you hear an alert, go to defense as fast as you can!!!
         Use either fighters or lasers to save damage to your base.

         Production: Grease-R-Us     Click on the screen above the chair to
         produce items you've researched.

         Reasearch: R&D product research and development.

          To start research, put the pointer over the TITLE of a folder and
          click.Then select a project from that folder (after a project is
          completed, plans appear and the project name turns green).

          Use the Day Advance to speed the time along.

      IV. Misc.

      To win you must repopulate the Earth somehow..the answers are in the
      solar system somewhere.

     CHEAT SECTION - READ NO FURTHER IF YOU WANT NO HELP.

        Quick start- go to power and turn on the Mark I.
                     Turn on mining.
                     Cycle through 20 days. (advance day)
                     Turn off mining.
                     Reaserch Mark II SolaGen
                     Cycle days until research is complete.
                     Produce a Mark II
                     Go to Power and put the Mark II online.
                     Turn mining on
                     Reasearch Mark III-X
                     Reasearch fighter
                     reasearch Grazer
                     Build all above
                     Build at least 6 grazers
                     Send grazers to the asteroids.

     To have more crew, build nodules. To colonize, build S.O.U.S
