
                            [41m[32m CIRCUS ATTRACTIONS [0m
                    ©1987 Rainbow Arts - Golden Goblins


Circus Director Morelli leant back in his chair and made himself comfortable.
"The idea was just fantastic", said the clown. "We've sold out alle tickets and
we haven't even got the tent up." "Perhaps we should get a move on with putting
up the tent. I don't like the idea of having to present the 'Greatest Show on
Earth' in the fresh air." "O.k., o.k. take it easy huh? The 'Tent up Plan' says
that we'll be ready by three o'clock, and who can disagree with that?" Everyone
was in a good mood Circus Morelli. The new European tour was going to be started
with a big bang, with a 'Tournament of Artists'. Over 100 artists had arrived to
prove their dexterity , skill and prowess in all acts. Knifethrowers, clowns,
and even two pretty ladies in a balancing act, had made their way to be included
in this circus event of the decade. In the Grand Gala Show, the artists will all
present their skills. After which the crowd will decide which of the acts were
the best. The best, and only the best will then be included in the European
Tour. Shortly after three-thirty Morelli impatiently inspects the newly built up
tent. The press masses around him, wanting interviews and interesting pictures.
With a glint in his eye he tells the reporters that nearly every artist of rank
and name had arrived on his invitation. "This evening we will present a show
that no one in the world has yet seen." As Morelli explains to the reporters of
the difficulties of organizing a show like this, some of the artists are warming
up in the great tent...



[1mTRAMPOLINING[0m
	
The idea of flying and moving through the air as graciously as birds, was the
wish of mankind for a long time. In the 18-hundreds, this wish produced some
very interesting inventions. The British Admiral, Arnold Frederik invented the
Tramp-O-Line, - a sail under tension that was (by jumping) supposed to help
the sailors reach the very topmost masts. The inadequate accuracy of most of the
sailors led to the very frequent use of "Man over board!". Well, in 92% of all
attempted jumps. For a long time, the trampoline was then forgotten, until 1913,
when a circus artist (Phillip Concorde) decided to use it in a varieté act. He
was convinced, and bet that he could jump over any one visiting the varieté. He
died four month later by attempting to jump over a man measuring two
metres and twelve centimetres. Whereby he hit the roof of the varieté at full
power. His son, Auguste Concorde continued the act for four years, but only
presented it in high circus tents. Since then, a trampoline act is to found in
every good circus repertoire. The trampoline act that will be shown today in the
Circus Morelli is a great attraction - the heights reached by the artists
measure over ten metres. These being enabled by the use of special material -
the plastic Duralex. In order to gain height you have to use the joystick,
landing - joystick down, jump-joystick up. Once in the air you may pull your
legs up by joystick up, - very useful at attempting somersaults.

[33mJoystick up/down:[0m
Bouncing on trampoline, or in the air: legs pulled up or stretched.

The circus visitors however, get bored by watching trampoline artists just
jumping higher and higher. The visitor's interest is shown by column logo.
Should their interest sink to nill, the act will then be ended. In order to
entertain them, it's important to build in a few somersaults etc. in your
jump.
A somersault left is started by joystick/left, in the air, fire-button pressed
slows the somersault momento.
Obviously, one should slow the somersault so, that one lands with feet
down on the trampoline.

[33mJoystick/left:[0m
Forward somersault start.

[33mFire-button:[0m
Slow somersault momento.

The backward somersault is slowed automatically after one cycle and is
slower in momento as a forward somersault, - so watch out!

[33mJoystick/right:[0m
Backward somersault start.

THE TWO PLAYER MODUS
Two trampoline artists are to be seen on the screen, each controlled by one
player. The jump movements are individually controlled, i.e. not synchro-
nous, but if one player starts a somersault, the second artist follows!
Therefore all artistic jumps should be announced in order to let the
second player get in position for it.



[1mTIGHTROPE WALKING[0m
Like all circus artist families, the balancing artists are a trained unit and
union where the saying "One for all, and all for one" is still the most
important thought. For example: As the heavyweight russian balancer Olga
Tschernobyla ("250 Kilograms on a rope") fell 20 metres into a lion taming act
in 1978. - After which the press was given the report that no one lion was atany
time in danger. Only once, in the summer of 1983 did the Union lose control when
during the "Balancers strike against plastic ropes and steel ropes in!"
scaffolders and roofers were trained and put into use as blacklegs. This evening
however, an attractive lady will perform a neckbreaking balancing act in which
she will attempt to collect bonus points. The young lady moves automati- cally
forward on the rope, but she needs your help in balancing. There are several
ways to help her balance, e.g. the simple up and down movement of the arms.

[33mJoystick left/right:[0m
Balance using the arms.

In addition to this you may use the arms to achieve extreme balance in
dangerous situations, but this does not result in gathering many points.

[33mJoystick up/left/right:[0m
Extreme balance using arms.

The bonus objects may be collected by the following artistic acts:
The scissorkick
When fire-button pressed, the young lady will jump up. During the jump
she cannot be controlled. Should she land on the rope, she will need your
help in balancing out.

[33mFire-button pressed:[0m
Scissorkick start

The backward somersault
With joystick up and fire a backward somersault will be attempted. During
the attempt she cannot be controlled, but needs your help again to
balance out on landing.

[33mFire-button, Joystick up:[0m
Backward somersault start.

The handstand
This is the most difficult attraction and may only be attempted once in her
act. During the handstand attempt the joystick left/right control is
swapped. The handstand may be aborted at any time by pressing the fire-
button.

[33mJoystick down/fire-button:[0m
Handstand start.

[33mFire-button pressed:[0m
Handstand abort.

[33mJoystick left/right:[0m
Balance out using arms.

[33mJoystick up/left/right:[0m
Extreme balance out using arms.

THE TWO PLAYER MODUS
Onc balancing woman stands on the shoulders of the other. Both must
keep their balance accurately. Only the lady artist on top may attempt the
artistic acts.



[1mJUGGLING[0m
Juggling is one of the most variable artistic performances, even having its
practical use. Just think of the innumerable politicians juggling day-in,
day-out with votes, the force of facts and big lobbies. A great many jugglers'
numbers of our time try to achieve attention by use of items of a particular
thrill. In Las Vegas for example, the "Great Hogan" juggles twice each evening
in the course of a rather dull revue with three running chainsaws, thus making
juggling with burning torches look very harmless. Few people though, realise
that the thing with juggling does not consist in hurling dangerous items through
the air, but in juggling with as many things as possible in the most artistic
way. It is this very point which is characteristic for the juggling-performance
you will see tonight in the Circus Morelli, and because you are not going to
juggle with three, but with up to six balls at the same time, you will need a
lot more concentration than with three chainsaws - even if those may cause
more damage when they fall to the ground. Near the juggler a lovely female
assistant stands, handing you the various items in a certain sequence.

[33mPress fire:[0m
Accept item from assistant

If you don't accept any item out of this sequence, the assistant will toss you
a tennis ball.
The tennis ball is to be caught with the left hand and then thrown into the
right one. In order to throw it back to the left hand, push joystick to the
left. You can juggle with a maximum of six balls.

[33mJoystick left:[0m
Throw ball with right hand.

The balance ball is offered after the first tennis ball. It is taken up with the
foot and remains lying there until it is kicked up by moving joystick down.
The balance ball is caught automatically and can be kicked up again.

Of course, you can only take up one balance ball, as you need one
leg to remain standing (as you will most certainly remember!),

[33mJoystick down:[0m
Kick up balance ball with left foot.

When having been selected, the clown will pass by under your feet on his
motor-bike. You have to jump up at the right moment in order not to lose
balance, because the clown has a preference for knocking down jugglers. The
clown has enough gas for only three runs. Hint: Although it is difficult to jump
over the clown, this gives you the advantage that you don't have to accept any
more items out of the current bonus sequence.

[33mJoystick up:[0m
Jump.

The club is offered only once and can only be caught and thrown with the
left hand. In this case you will need real precision motor activity, because
tennis balls and clubs may never be held or caught with the same hand.

[33mJoystick right:[0m
Throw club with left hand.

Although the action of juggling alone demands uttermost mental concen-
tration, you should also try to collect as many bonus items as possible with
balance ball and club.

THE TWO PLAYER MODE
Both players throw the tennis balls at each other. Each of the players may
take one of the items, but should agree on which item, in order to lose
their rhythm.



[1mKNIFE THROWING[0m
Chicago: 1930. Prohibition is at high level. Alfredo Cortanigi, called
"Stiletto" or the "Soft Killer", is one of the most wanted people in town. The
police would like to have a little chat with him, because of 34 members of
several Mafia-families lying around in the police cellar with knife sticking out
of them. Unfortunately, all of these knives have a nice label, reading "This
knife is the property of Alfredo Cortanigi, 32 Kerner Boulevard, Chicago. Honest
finders will receive a reward." Considering this, Alfredo decides to change his
name and take up an honest job. Instead of precisely hitting his victims, he
starts precisely missing them. The first knife-throwing-performance is born. A
circus in town just at that time, accepts Alfredo as a staff member and takes
him on an American tour. Following Alfredo's good example, you should try as
well not to hit your lovely girl partner, who has tolerated more or less
voluntarily being strapped onto a rotating disc. In case something should go
wrong, in spite of all your care, don't panic! We will let you in on a little
secret: The Circus Morelli doesn't uses real knives for this number, but rather
blunt, magnetic knives which stick to the magnetic disc, but will refuse to
pierce the girl. In spite of this, every "hit" on the girl will result in a
considerable reduction in score: "Hits" on the girl result in her being bruised,
thus preventing her performance on stage for the next few days. With the
joystick, you direct a crosshair showing you the point were the knife is going
to hit.

[33mJoystick in all directions:[0m
Direct crosshair.

Your assistant gives you the knives. In order to take a knife, press fire; in
order to throw it, let go fire button.

[33mPress fire:[0m
Take knife

[33mLet go fire button:[0m
Throw knife.

Your should hasten to take the knives, because in case you don't the impatient
assistant throws them backward into the audience. After your having thrown all
knives, disc rotation is stopped and the score announced. In order to add thrill
to this game, the assistant tries to hand you a stick of dynamite now and
again. If you take that we regret having to inform you that you will then
explode, lose a considerable amount of mental concentration, and be forced to
cancel your performance. In case you luckily don't accept the dynamite, the next
knives will be handed to you by a rather blackened assistant.
Besides the rotating disc, there are some further targets, giving you the
opportunity to increase your score, for example: the bonus items or the cowboy.
Try your luck and watch what happens, but do be careful not to hit Director
Morelli! If you do, he will become rather angry, and you will become rather
nervous!

THE TWO PLAYER MODE
In this mode, both players throw at the same disc at the same time.



[1mJUMPING CLOWNS[0m
The high entertainment value of this performance was discovered in 1978 rather
incidentally, when the "Flying Pirellis" (a smashing trapeze performance) lost
balance during a triple somersault, fell down into the arena and catapulted a
clown high into the air, who at that very moment was carrying a seesaw into the
arena in order to use it for the seal-dressage performance. The clown landed
on a second seesaw, which was beeing carried out of the arena by another
clown, who had just used it for the poodle-dressage performance (poodles and
seals don't like each other very much, and therefore don't like using the same
seesaw). The second clown couldn't find another seesaw to fall on, regardless of
all effort. Instead, he landed rather smoothly on the vendor's tray of a
candy-floss-seller, who was just selling a lady in the third row her seventh
candy floss. The audience, not aware of any problem, raged in delight thus
exceeding its reaction to the magic performance of the circus Director, a
bachelor who used to saw himself into pieces. The Director, Morelli, changed the
acrobatic number of the clowns into a regular performance, which - as we
regretfully admit - was slightly less spectacular than the original performance,
thus enabling the audience to recognise the true value of Director's
own wizardry. The current version of the "Jumping Clowns" features three clowns
and two seesaws of a rather everyday sort. The two seesaws stand at the left and
the right of the arena, and on each a clown stands ready for action. The third
clown then jumps down from a platform onto one of the seesaws, hurling his
partner up into the air, who then tries to fall onto the second seesaw in order
to catapult the clown waiting there back to the first seesaw. This little game
is repeated until one of the clowns loses breath, balance, or enthusiasm. In
order to increase the audience's delight (and to annoy the Director), the clowns
collect bonus items during flight. When doing this, be very careful about the
fact that not all items are good for the clowns; in the middle of this scene
there linger however, some spirits left over from Morelli's wizardry, who should
not be touched!

The clowns are joystick-controlled in the following fashion:
Launch:
For the launch, you have to determine direction and trajectory:

[33mJoystick left/up right:[0m
Clowns jumps high into the air, in order to reach a high trajectory to the
target seesaw.

[33mJoystick left/right:[0m
Trajectory of a medium-high flight.

[33mJoystick left/down right:[0m
Clown jumps to target seesaw in low flight

If the joystick is not used, the clown jumps staight up in the air and lands
again on his launching pad.
During flight, the trajectory may be slightly adjusted, a process that is
very important for locking the clown onto the target.

[33mJoystick left/right:[0m
Adjust trajectory during flight.

The fire button serves only one purpose in this attraction: It makes the
clown waiting on the target seesaw change sides (only possible, when the
other clown is actually jumping to the other seesaw.

[33mPress fire:[0m
The clown waiting on the target seesaw changes sides on
the seesaw.

THE TWO PLAYER MODE
If two players play the game, they control a jumping clown each in turns,
during the other player may change sides on the seesaw under the
abovementioned conditions.



[1mSCORING[0m
The final score will be calculated after the final event. But don't add up all
your points of all five events - the final score will be the average from all
events. So you have to be good in every event to get a high score. If something
goes wrong and you want to have another try at one trick, you have three chances
to repeat any event. But be carful: if you already use two chances to repeat at
the first event, you have just one left for the other four. So think ahead and
use your chances only when you really need them.


                           (Edited by Hexaae ©2026)
